so two egg yolks pepper and salt in the
food processor or you can make it with a
liquidizer
now I'm going to put the saucepan over a
medium heat and add to it a dessert
spoon of wine vinegar and a dessert
spoon of lemon juice and then I'm going
to turn the heat up high and what I want
is for that to really come right up to
the simmering point and be really really
hot before I add it to the egg yolks
there we are now that's really really
hot I'm going to switch the motor on
again pour it in join the egg yolks
motor off the pan goes back on the heat
and now it's going to have four ounces
of butter and the butter has got to melt
and become as hot as the vinegar and the
lemon juice were so we'll just wait now
for that to melt as soon as the butter
is really foaming and bubbling like that
you need to transfer it into a jug that
the jug should be warm so I've just
filled the jug with some boiling water
from the kettle to keep it warm and now
heat off the butter goes into the jug
and then we're going to go back to the
processor switch the motor on slowly
remember
slower you pour it in
whose patient
switch the motor off and then the next
thing you need to do is just finally
just just work it around a little bit
inside here in case there's any little
bits of melted butter that didn't get
incorporated and then just give it one
quick burst and it'll be ready that's it
and it might seem like it's taking you a
long time but if you didn't have a food
processor you would be using the using a
whisk and a bowl over barely simmering
water and it would take a lot longer it
would take about ten minutes so here we
have the pure hollandaise sauce
the lovely butter sauce that goes
beautifully with asparagus lovely with
just plain grilled fish but there is a
slight problem and that is that if you
want to make it in advance it's quite
tricky to reheat it because of the eggs
breaking or splitting and cornflour
won't come to the rescue this time but
something else does adding the whites
the whites of the yolks the same eggs
they've been beaten up the soft peak
stage and I'm just going to fold them in
and what this will do is not only
lighten the sauce make it it'll make it
go a lot further but also the white of
the egg stabilizes it that means that
you can make it well in advance store it
in the refrigerator I've had it in
refrigerator for two or three days
waiting to be served and then if you put
the bowl over some barely simmering
water it can reheat without any danger
of splitting so that's hollandaise sauce
you can have it straight or you can have
it foaming which is lighter either way
it's a great source one of the best ways
to serve hollandaise sauce is with this
classic recipe for Eggs Benedict
you